I'm out at heirloom roses today with
Chris and we've come out with you in the
past and we've learned about pruning
roses and today we are going to be doing
climbers and climbing roses the
technique of pruning those is totally
different than what we've done in the
past it is with a climbing rose of
course you want to leave some more of
your old wood because that's where your
flowers come from definitely so what
you're going to do is you're actually
going to want to thin out some of this
little puny or wood out of the bottom
also get anything that's going the wrong
direction so things like this they're
actually going in a direction that you
don't want not up against the fence okay
you want to remove those out and I see
you're using loppers and I see this
whole bucket of tools so what's in your
little bucket here um well this is my
work bucket because one problem I found
is that I was out in the garden is I
would run back and forth for different
tools and I'd get stuck in the house
something on the TV maybe some garden
thyme or something and I'm not dating
back to do my work so I discovered by
putting everything in a bucket I had all
my tools in one place I didn't have to
run around and find them every time I
wanted to use them I'm ready to go for
any situation so Chris I'm all set with
all the tools right here so now what's
the next step what are we looking for
what we're doing is we're going to look
for canes that we can train out
laterally the reason it's important to
train as many canes out laterally as
possible is because if you allow a cane
to grow straight up it will typically
only bloom on the tips you'll notice
there's not a lot of side shoots coming
here versus this cane over here or this
one where we've laterally trained and
you can see in each one of those
produces flowers so in turn you're
getting it for the whole length of the
cane versus only on the tip of the cane
so and it's great against this fence I
mean it's a great idea to Train it
against a fence they don't have to go
into an arbor you can hide a fence you
can do a lot more with them than just
going straight up exactly in fact
they're very very versatile at going
sideways you get much more bloom out of
it and you also avoid the knobby new
things anytime you can laterally train
it keeps foliage and flowers lower down
on the plant very nice you know this one
looks like we would take a little bit of
time to do but you have another one to
show us would be
the finished product yes let's go over
there and look at it okay Chris this is
really artwork I mean it looks beautiful
just like this with no flowers on it
just was a really pretty pretty piece
now show us exactly what happened here
what we did is we actually went through
and we had thinned out the Canes we
picked out the Canes that we wanted to
keep for this year and then we started
training them out laterally and as you
can see by doing that look at the buds
that actually are already starting to
poke out each one of those is actually
going to produce a flower so you can see
the advantages over this versus having a
plant that just grows straight up right
you know I think this is a great visual
we can get really a good idea of what to
do with our roses at home thank you so
much it's a great idea you're welcome
you